README.md, before:

# Grading Tool Assistant
## Overview

The Grading Tool Assistant is a Python script designed to help educators and teaching assistants manage and organize student submissions efficiently. It processes a specified directory containing student submissions, organizing each student's files into individual directories named after each student. Additionally, it automatically unzips any .zip files found within these directories, streamlining the preparation for grading.
Requirements

Python 3.4 or higher
Access to a command-line interface (CLI)

## Setup

Ensure Python 3.4 or higher is installed on your system.
Download the organize_submissions.py script and place it in a directory separate from the student submissions.
(Optional) If your student submissions are not yet downloaded, place them in a single directory.

## Usage

Open a terminal or command prompt.
Navigate to the directory containing the organize_submissions.py script.
Run the script with the path to the submissions directory as an argument. The submissions directory can be unzipped or zipped:

```bash

python3 organize_submissions.py /path/to/submissions
```
or 
```bash

python3 organize_submissions.py /path/to/submissions.zip
```
Replace `/path/to/submissions` with the actual path to your directory containing the student submissions.

**IMPORTANT** do not have this script in the same folder as the submissions folder
## Script Features

Automatic Organization: Moves each student's files into a directory named after the student, based on the name extracted from the file name.
Zip File Handling: Automatically unzips all .zip files within each student's directory.
Grading: CSV File with a column of the names for grading
Self-Preservation: The script is designed to ignore and preserve itself, avoiding accidental deletion or movement.

## Notes

The script assumes the student's name is the first part of the file name, up to the first underscore (_).
The script is designed to handle .zip files. If other file formats require extraction, additional functionality will need to be added.
It is recommended to backup your data before running the script as a precaution.

## Contributing

Feedback and contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues with suggestions for improvements.

Commit message:

updating readme with path directions

README.md, after:

# Grading Tool Assistant
## Overview

The Grading Tool Assistant is a Python script designed to help educators and teaching assistants manage and organize student submissions efficiently. It processes a specified directory containing student submissions, organizing each student's files into individual directories named after each student. Additionally, it automatically unzips any .zip files found within these directories, streamlining the preparation for grading.
Requirements

Python 3.4 or higher
Access to a command-line interface (CLI)

## Setup

Ensure Python 3.4 or higher is installed on your system.
Download the organize_submissions.py script and place it in a directory separate from the student submissions.
(Optional) If your student submissions are not yet downloaded, place them in a single directory.

## Usage

Open a terminal or command prompt.
Navigate to the directory containing the organize_submissions.py script.
Run the script with the path to the submissions directory as an argument. The submissions directory can be unzipped or zipped:

```bash

python3 organize_submissions.py /path/to/submissions.zip
```
or

```bash

python3 organize_submissions.py /path/to/submissions
```

Optionally, you can specify a new location and name for the folder where the submissions should be organized:

```bash
python3 organize_submissions.py /path/to/submissions.zip /new/path/for/organized_submissions/file_name
```

**IMPORTANT** do not have this script in the same folder as the submissions folder
## Script Features

Automatic Organization: Moves each student's files into a directory named after the student, based on the name extracted from the file name.
Zip File Handling: Automatically unzips all .zip files within each student's directory.
Grading: CSV File with a column of the names for grading


## Notes

The script assumes the student's name is the first part of the file name, up to the first underscore (_).
The script is designed to handle .zip files. If other file formats require extraction, additional functionality will need to be added.
It is recommended to backup your data before running the script as a precaution.

## Contributing

Feedback and contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues with suggestions for improvements.
